For the deck creation/edit i need a ruleset which defines the validations for the deck. An error or warning should be shown to the user if the deck or the action is not valid.
The followings are the offical rules. Use them as a reference for the rules itself. On the page (card details and deck creation/edit) the user should see the rules and the information.

The Main Deck
Card Count: Must contain between 40 and 60 cards. It can be also 40 or 60 as well.
Consistency Rule: It is highly recommended to stick exactly to the 40-card minimum to increase the odds of drawing your best cards.
Not allowed Cards: Fusion, Synchro, Xyz, Pendulum, and Link Monsters.

The Extra Deck
Card Count: Can contain up to 15 cards.
Allowed Cards: Fusion, Synchro, Xyz, Pendulum, and Link Monsters. Of course these kind of cards cannot be part of the Main deck.
Not Mandatory: You do not have to include an Extra Deck if your deck strategy doesn't require it.

The Side Deck
Card Count: Can contain up to 15 cards.
Usage: Used to swap cards between games in a Best-of-3 Match.
Rule: Before and after swapping cards in between duels, your Side Deck must contain the exact same number of cards.

I also need a small tooltip or info button which summarizes which deck is for what purpose. Possible definitions:
The Main Deck is the primary deck you use in a Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel, and it is the deck you draw cards from during play. It usually contains Monster, Spell, and Trap Cards, and it forms the main strategy of your deck.
The Extra Deck is a separate deck used for special monster types that are not kept in the Main Deck. It typically contains Fusion, Synchro, Xyz, and Link Monsters, and these monsters are summoned only when specific game conditions are met.
The Side Deck is an optional reserve deck used between Duels in a Match. It lets you swap cards with your Main Deck and Extra Deck to adapt your strategy against a specific opponent or matchup.

General Card & Banlist Rules
The "Maximum of 3" Rule: You can have no more than 3 copies of the same card across your Main Deck, Extra Deck, and Side Deck combined.
The Forbidden & Limited List: Official tournaments restrict certain overpowered or meta-defining cards. You must always adhere to the current list:
    Forbidden: 0 copies allowed.
    Limited: Maximum 1 copy allowed.
    Semi-Limited: Maximum 2 copies allowed.


Official banlist: https://www.yugioh-card.com/eu/play/forbidden-and-limited-list/?

The icons in the Remarks columns should be ignored.

The above URL contains all of the banlist for the previous years. There are 3 tabs: Forbidden, Limited, Semi-Limited
The html code is in the file C:\Users\krisztian.toth\Downloads\aaa\YGO App Cursor\DO NOT DELETE\banlist_html_code.html

The data should be stored in the database. There should be a github action that fetches the data from the URL and stores it in the database and runs every once a month (1st day of the month).
Based on the banlist the database should be able to assign it to the relevant cards so on the frontend the user should be able to see which cards are forbidden, limited or semi-limited.


Yugioh formats:

Advanced Format is the official modern tournament format for Yu-Gi-Oh!. It uses the current Forbidden, Limited, and Semi-Limited lists, so some cards are banned while others are restricted to one or two copies.

Traditional Format is an alternative format that is very similar to Advanced Format, but it does not use a Forbidden List. Instead, cards that would be forbidden in Advanced are allowed at 1 copy in this format, while Limited and Semi-Limited restrictions still apply.

Edison Format is a retro fan format based on Yu-Gi-Oh! as it existed around March 2010, named after the Edison, New Jersey championship event. It uses the March 2010 banlist and the card pool and rules of that era, which means it plays like an older, slower version of the game.
The only allowed cards are which were released till 2010-04-20 (last allowed expansion is Duelist Pack: Kaiba).

“Goat Format” refers to a Yu-Gi-Oh! format that was officially played during the summer of 2005. It gets its name from the popularity of the card Scapegoat during this time period. It is a format that is still widely played today using the same card pool, ruleset, and banlist. 

Speed Duel is a simplified official Yu-Gi-Oh! format designed for faster games with a smaller field and fewer mechanics than the standard game. It uses a reduced card pool and special Speed Duel rules to make duels shorter and easier to learn. There is no banlist or limited list.

Genesys is a newer official Yu-Gi-Oh! format built around a point-based deck-building system instead of the normal Forbidden and Limited List. It removes Link and Pendulum Monsters, uses the classic field layout, and limits your deck by point cap rather than by bans alone.
The key idea is that most cards cost 0 points, but stronger cards cost more, and your Main Deck, Extra Deck, and Side Deck combined must stay within the event’s point limit, usually 100. In simple terms, Genesys is a “build-with-a-budget” format that lets many formerly banned cards be played again, but only if you can afford their point cost.



Logic:

- For advanced format can a banlist choosen based on datetime

- For traditional format also can a banlist choosen based on datetime

- Speed Duel format has no banlist or limited list, so it's banlist cannot be choosen. But if the user chooses the speed duel format, only cards which are available in speed duel format should be presented. Every card has a speed duel printing if the given printing is in an expension which name contains the "Speed Duel" expression.
But to be sure that this function is future proof and flexible, I want to have a special attribute for the cards which indicates if the card is available in speed duel format. This attribute should be stored in the database.
Of course not only the cards should be shown which are valid in this format, but also the printings under the card should be shown only, if based on the release date they are valid in this format.


- For genesys format there is no banlist, but there is a point list for given datetimes. 
The genesys point lists are available at the following url: https://yugipedia.com/wiki/September_22,_2025_Point_List
The html code is in the file C:\Users\krisztian.toth\Downloads\aaa\YGO App Cursor\DO NOT DELETE\genesys_point_list_html_code.html
The above URL points to the first point list of genesys. In the attached html code there is this part:
<a href="/wiki/September_24,_2025_Point_List" title="September 24, 2025 Point List">September 24, 2025</a>
This is a link to the second point list of genesys. The workflow should iterate through all the point lists and store the data in the database for every datetime so the user can choose the desired point list.
Every card on this list has a point value. If a card is not on the list, it means it has a point value of 0. The total point value of the cards (main+side+extra deck) should not exceed the point value of 100.
The data should be stored in the database. There should be a github action that fetches the data from the URL and stores it in the database and runs every once a month (1st day of the month).
Because this data is from yugipedia, the data should be aligned with the card details in the database based on the cardnames in the pointlist. Only the cost is needed for every card.
The advanced search function should be extended to search for cards based on the point value. But it should be only visible for the genesys format.

- For Edison fromat the banlist and limited list is fixed for the 2010 March list. The allowed card pool is based on the release date of the expansion. The only allowed cards are which were released till 2010-04-20 (last allowed expansion is Duelist Pack: Kaiba).
Also the card text shown should be changed based on errata if it exists. For example Brain Control had many erratum over time:

Original
The Lost Millennium · TLM-EN038 · Release date: 1 June 2005
Pay 800 Life Points. Select 1 face-up monster on your opponent's side of the field. Take control of the selected card until the End Phase of the turn this card is activated.

First erratum
Structure Deck: Invincible Fortress · SD7-EN024 · Release date: 15 May 2006
Pay 800 Life Points. Select 1 face-up monster on your opponent's side of the field. Take control of the selected card until the end of this turn.

Second erratum
Starter Deck: Jaden Yuki · YSDJ-EN030 · Release date: 25 July 2007
Pay 800 Life Points. Select 1 face-up monster your opponent controls. Take control of it until the End Phase.

Third erratum
Legendary Collection 3: Yugi's World Mega Pack · LCYW-EN074 · Release date: 27 September 2012
Pay 800 Life Points to target 1 face-up monster your opponent controls; take control of that target until the End Phase.

In this case the Second erratum text should be shown for the card, because that is the last erratum till 2010 March. The errata data has special word formattings like striketrhoug. If we change the card description into the erratum text, i want to remove these special word formattings.
Of course not only the cards should be shown which are valid in this format, but also the printings under the card should be shown only, if based on the release date they are valid in this format.

But to be sure that this function is future proof and flexible, I want to have a special attribute for the cards which indicates if the card is available in speed duel format. This attribute should be stored in the database.


- For Goat we are using the banlist of 2005 April. The allowed cardlist cutoff is generally The Lost Millennium (TLM) which is still included in the format. The release date on the yugipedia set chronology is 24 February 2005.
The main deck size is unlimited and it should be at least 40 cards. The side deck is max 15 cards. The extra deck is unlimited. Because back then the synchro, link and xyz monsters were not yet introduced, only the fusion monsters are allowed.


The idea is that the user should be able to choose the desired banlist (I mean the year) and the desired format from a dropdown menü.
By default the Advanced TCG banlist and the most actual banlist should be selected.


During deck creation the user should be able to choose the desired format from a dropdown menü. In that case the deck rules should be applied for the given format:
- Banlist and limited list if relevant 
- Point list if relevant (total point value of the deck should not exceed the point value of 100)


For the formats there should be a little description on the portal to inform the user about the format and the rules.



From architectural point of view this list should be extendable. We should be able to add new formats and new banlists easily.

